Welcome back everyone to functions.
Part two in part two we're really going to focus on trying to solve problems with functions and also
cover a few useful operators such as the joint method off of the string as well as things like max and
min.
Let's get started.
All right let's start off by actually going through a few useful operators or functions that we haven't
discussed before.
Such as Max maximun enumerate and the join method off of the string We'll start off with maximun since
they're kind of the easiest.
These are actually just going to return the max Borman of what you passen.
So it's only pasand to numbers into max and min.
Such as a tour of three.
And then I print this out.
So what's the max between 2 and 3.
If I save that and run this I get back 3.
So if you just pasand two numbers like this I'll report back.
Which is the max number where you can also do for a large amount of numbers.
It's just passing the string of values or excuse me a list of values.
So here I am passing in a bunch of values inside of a list and then when you pass that list instead
of Max over turn back the largest value in that list.
So in this case it was 100.
And just like Max there's also a min function which as you may have guessed returns back the minimum
value in that list for the minimum between two numbers.
Second pasan for instance 1 in 100.
Save that and then get back 1.
So that's max and min.
Up next I want to talk about the enumerate function which is actually really useful especially when
used with for loops.
So let's imagine.
I want to do a for loop through a list of letters.
So I say four letter in a b and c and then I said Prince Lutter and I'm going to delete this max and
min appear.
So when I run this I should see ABC as illustrate a b and c..
So in fact we can say copy that set my list equal to that list and then just say four letter in my list
run the second and we'll get back the same result.
Now let's imagine.
I also want to know the index location of each of these letters.
Well one way I could do this is start by having an index parameter.
So something like Index is equal to zero.
And it's a four letter in my list.
Print the letter and then print is at index and then maybe I can use that formatting here.
The format index.
And then I'll add one to the index and they'll say indexes equal to index plus 1.
So what I'm doing here is I set this variable index to 0 and then I'm going to say OK for every letter
in my list a b and c I'll print out the letter and then I'll say is that index.
And then I'll print out the index there not add one to my index and then I'll just print a blank line.
So let's say that and see what happens.
And I going expand this so you can see.
So it says A is an index 0.
B is the index 1 and C is an index to.
OK not bad but this is such a useful task or such a common task as far as keeping track of the index
while you're iterating that Python already has a built in function to do this and it's called enumerate
because it can enumerate this list.
So what you do is instead of having that manually track the index as we just did you just passed in
your iterable.
In this case our list into this enumerate function.
And so let's see what enumerate actually returns.
On the say for item in the numerator my list prints out the item.
So when I run this you'll notice that you get back these tuple pairs where you have the first item in
the tuple be the index position and the second item be the actual element that's inside of that list.
Essentially something we're doing really similar before except now it's automatically done for you enumerate.
Now we can continue this by actually using tuple and packing so I can say for index Khama item and enumerate.
And now I'm going to unpack these tuples as we discussed in the for loop lecture to actually grab their
index positions and I can say prints.
Item print is an index and in fact then I can use extreme formatting here since I'm on Paice on 3.6
and let's print out them of Lynn Klein save it run this and I get back the same result as I did for
the index 0 Baeza index 1.
See is the index to except that takes a lot less code now because the numerate function I could automatically
grab that index because it's numbering every item in that list.
So that's how the enumerate function works.
And it's super useful when you want to keep track of items or maybe switch something out at a particular
index location.
So if you want to switch out every even number something you could do that as well.
OK now I'm going to cover one last useful operator which is the dot join method off a string.
So let's imagine I have a list of letters again a B and C and I wanted to somehow join the list into
a single string.
I wanted my output to look something like just ABC a single string like that.
Or if I had the end here I'd also want the D in there
so I'd want to look something like that.
So how can I actually do that when I have this list.
Well luckily there's a method you can call off a string.
So let me show you how that works.
You call part of a string that you want to serve as a connector between each of these elements.
Then you say join and then you just pass in the list.
So let's print out this result so we can see what it looks like and when say print.
And I'm going to save that lots from this and then as I get back.
ABC.
So what this is actually doing is you get to choose whatever stream connector you want in between these
elements and then you join them together.
For example I'll choose two sets of dashes as my string.
Then I called Dot join and I pass in my list.
I print out the result to that.
Then I get to see every element in that list 2 dashes then the next element to ashes then the next element.
So to make it really clear what's happening here I and to say dash X dash run this again and I can see
every element in the list separated are joined together by Dash X dash.
Again you choose the connector.
They say that join and pass and the list.
OK.
So those are the three useful operators I wanted to discuss.
Now let's practice two example problems of Python functions.
All right the first problem is to write a function that returns a boolean in the of the word secret
isn't a string.
So let's try that.
Well start off base in the keyword DPF and then we'll name our function we'll call it secret underscore
check and then we need to accept the string as an argument.
So see my string colon.
And I want you to perform some sort of logic to check if the secret is in the string.
So I'll say if secret.
Let's make sure I spell this right.
Secrets in my string return true.
Else return false and in just a little bit I'll show you how you can improve upon this.
But right now let's see what this logic is doing.
We taken a string as an argument and I check is this string secret in my string.
If so all return TRUE else return false.
So test it out and make sure it's actually working.
Mizu much the little bit so you can see everything and then I'm going to print the results of secret
check and Wil's passen the string simple.
So here I would expect it to return false.
So I run this and I get back false.
Now let's try something like.
This is a secret and that when I run this I get back.
True because secret is within that string.
OK so something I want to point out is.
Let's analyze what secret in my string is.
This is already a boolean.
So we're basically saying.
If true return TRUE else return false.
In that case I might as well just return the result of this comparison.
Or this operation secret in my string so I can actually place this whole thing but just saying Return
secret in my stream because that is what's happening here.
This itself is the boolean.
So there's no need for me to add more returns of booleans and said I'll just return this directly.
True or false.
So if I run this I'll get back the same results.
True for this the last thing I want to know is let's imagine we have an edge case where we have an s
capitalized.
Here when I run this I now get back false because my check is only performing it for the lower case
secret.
I could add logical operators like and and or statements to check for various cases of secret.
But instead what I could do is I could just lower case everything in the string first by calling the
lower method off that string.
Then I'll check if secret is in the lower case version of that string then return true or false.
So now let's see what happens.
Now I get back.
True because secret when I lower case this is in that string.
All right.
So that's how we can work through a word problems such as this.
Right.
The function returns a boolean true or false indicating that word secret is in string OK.
Problem 2 is to create a code maker function.
This function will take in a string name and replace any vowels with the letter x.
So let's break this down into a function that can hopefully solve this problem.
Well call this function codebreaker and it will accept that string.
So let's see how we can do this.
First I'm going to want to have some sort of way to organize my output and then what I should be doing
is iterating through every letter in the string.
So start by iterating through every letter in the string.
So I'll say four letter in my string.
In this case let's just print out the letters to see if that works.
And let's have coachmaker run on a line will say coachmaker and will say Samie
only run this I get back.
S a m m y.
And that true.
Looks like I still have this code above here.
No comment that out.
OK so we have this code make her function.
We just saw how we could iterate through every letter in that string.
Now I want to check if those letters are vowels.
So how can I do that.
While I can do this with another for loop I could then say for vowel N and then it could have a string
of values here a.
Oh you and in this case I'm gonna say Prince letter equals equals vowel and let's go ahead and print
out the letter itself that tab out there OK.
So my logic here right now I'm just slowly building out the capabilities I take in that string for every
letter in that string on my check against every vowel and I owe you or a IOU and then print it out if
there is a match.
So let's run this again.
So you'll notice here in our results it's going to be printing a bunch of falses because it's checking
each letter about five times.
So how about little change just print statements only print out if there is actually a match.
Some of the following I'll say if the letter is equal to the vowel then print out the letter that way
only see the vowels being printed out.
So let's run this again.
And now I get back the letter A perfect because I was the only vowel in Samie.
So now we're actually getting somewhere.
I now have the capability to go through every letter in the string check it against every possible vowel
and if the letter is equal to that I'll do something.
Now the idea is just the actual replacement.
So there's various ways we could do the replacement.
But one interesting way would be right before we do the for loop we create a list from my string and
just want to print what that actually looks like for you.
So I'll print out that output.
So now I have a list out of the characters Sammy and then I'm going to say for every letter in my string
check those letters are vowels and if the letters equal to value vowel I should replace that output
position.
So that's where I'm going to use enumerate.
We'll say for index letter in enumerate my string
check that letter or basically for every vowel then you check that the letter is equal to that vowel
and if that happens to be the case I'm going to take the output list at that index position and set
it equal to x as the instructions wanted me to.
So you got to remember we want to take the string and replace any vowels with the letter x.
So right now I have this output which is this list then I'm going to say OK for every single index and
letter and enumerate my street check it against the vowel.
If we have a match grab my output at that sugar index positions.
The first is going to be on the A and replace it with an X and then at the end of all this.
Let's see what happens when we return our output and pay very close attention to my indentation here
and zoom out so you can see the whole picture.
So again I'm returning output after going through these four loops.
So again take note of that in the notation.
You can always copy and paste from are provided notes.
So let me say that and see what happens when I run this.
Right now I'm still not replacing a.
So let's try to debug.
So what's happening here is I'm just printing the output.
So let's delete this print function and then since I'm returning the output I'm not going to need to
print the results of coachmaker and that should fix that issue.
So the Samie that was coming from that print output.
So now we're returning the output.
After doing these changes and then printing out the result of code maker.
So let's run this again.
And now I see s x and y.
Perfect.
Now the last thing you need to do is fix the output Scotius the string and we really talked about how
it could do that using the join method.
So once that's done I can just say output is equal to an empty string and then join the output.
And now when I run this I'll get back the actual string itself.
Now keep in mind we're only checking for lowercase vowels.
So something we do here is say If letter that lowercase is equal to these lowercase vowels then the
replacement as well.
So that would fix an issue something like Adam which starts of a capital A.
So we run this.
Now I see X the XM.
OK so let's quickly go over this logic again.
Because the probably the most complex example of Python code I've seen so far.
Basically what I'm doing here is I create this output list.
Then for every index and letter inside of my original string I check it against every possible vowel.
And then I say hey if that letter lowercase is equal to one of those vowels go ahead and change the
output index position at that list to the letter X. Then to get it back to a string.
I'm simply going to join the outputs and return the output.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums.
This is definitely probably the most advanced jump we've made so far but we're going to get a lot more
practice in the very next lecture through a bunch of function exercises.
We'll see you there.